St. Maximilian Kolbe, O.F.M. Conv. priest and martyr
St. Ursicinus, martyr († 4th c.)
St. Marcellus, bishop and martyr († c. 390)
St. Eusebius, founder († 4th/5th c.)
St. Fachanan, bishop and abbot († 6th c.)
St. Arnulf, bishop († 1087)
Bl. Sanctes of Urbino, O.F.M. lay brother († 1390)
Ss. Martyrs (800) of Otranto († August 14, 1480)
St. Dominic Ibañez de Erquicia, O.P. and martyr († 1633)
St. Francis Shoyemon, catechist and martyr († 1633)
Bl. Elizabeth Renzi, virgin and founder († 1859)
Bl. Vincent Rubiols Castelló, priest and martyr († 1936)
Bl. Felix Yuste Cava, priest and martyr († 1936)

« Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive also » (Mt 5:12)

Every man is a debtor to God, and he has his brother as a debtor. Indeed, who would owe nothing to God, except one in whom no sin can be found? And who does not have a brother as a debtor, except one whom no one has offended? Do you believe you can find a single person in humankind who is not indebted to his brother for some fault?

Every man then is a debtor and has debtors. Therefore, the just God gives you, regarding your debtor, a rule of conduct that He Himself follows regarding His own. For there are two works of mercy that can free us, which the Lord Himself teaches us in a few words in His Gospel: “Forgive, and you will be forgiven; give, and it will be given to you” (Lk 6:37-38) (...): these are forgiveness and kindness.

Here is what He teaches us about forgiveness: you want your sins to be forgiven, and you also have sins to forgive others. It is the same for charity: a beggar asks you for alms and you are God's beggar, for we are all God's beggars when we pray to Him. We stand, or rather we prostrate ourselves, before our Father's door, before His great wealth. We implore Him with groans, desiring to receive something from Him: and that something is God Himself. What does the beggar ask of you? Bread. And what do you ask of God if not Christ, who said: “I am the living bread that came down from heaven” (Jn 6:51). You want to be forgiven? “Forgive, and you will be forgiven.” You want to receive? “Give, and it will be given to you.”

Book of Joshua 3:7-10a, 11, 13-17.

In those days, the Lord said to Joshua: “Today I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that I am with you as I was with Moses.

You are to command the priests who carry the ark of the covenant: 'When you come to the edge of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan River.'”

Then Joshua said to the people of Israel: “Come here and listen to the words of the Lord your God.

By this you shall know that the living God is among you, and that he will certainly drive out before you the Canaanites:

behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth is passing over before you into the Jordan.

As soon as the soles of the feet of the priests bearing the ark of the Lord of all the earth shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off, the waters flowing from above, and they shall stand in a heap.”

So when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan, with the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people.

Now the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time of harvest. And as soon as those bearing the ark came to the Jordan, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were dipped in the edge of the water,

the waters flowing from above stood still, rising up in a single heap far off, at Adam, the city that is beside Zarethan; and those flowing down toward the Sea of the Arabah, the Salt Sea, were completely cut off. And the people passed over opposite Jericho.

Now the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firmly on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, and all Israel was passing over on dry ground until all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan.

Psalm 114(113A):1-2, 3-4, 5-6.

When Israel went out from Egypt,

and Jacob, from a people of strange language,

Judah became his sanctuary,

Israel his dominion.

The sea looked and fled;

Jordan turned back.

The mountains skipped like rams,

the hills like lambs.

What ails you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan,

that you turn back?

O mountains, that you skip like rams?

O hills, like lambs?

The Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 18:21-35, 19:1.

At that time, Peter came up and said to Jesus, “Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times?”

Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times.

Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants.

When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents (that is, sixty million silver coins).

And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made.

So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.'

And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.

But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. And seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, 'Pay what you owe!'

So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay you.'

But he refused and went and threw him into prison until he should pay what was owed.

When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place.

Then his master summoned him and said to him, 'You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me.

And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?'

And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt.

So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your heart.”

Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan.

St. Maximilian Kolbe, O.F.M. Conv. priest and martyr

The Thursday of the 19th Week in Ordinary Time
A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@