Ste Jeanne de Chantal, Foundress († 1641)
                Bl. Bonnaventure Garcia Paredes, priest O.P., martyr († 1936)
                St. Euplus, martyr († 304)
                Ss. martyrs Anicetus and Photius († 4th c.)
                St. Muredach, bishop († 5th or 6th c.)
                St. Lelia, virgin († 5th c.)
                St. Herculan, bishop († 6th c.)
                Ss. Porcarius (abbot) and comp., martyrs († c. 8th c.)
                Bl. Charles Meehan, priest O.F.M. and martyr († 1679)
                Bl. Innocent XI, pope (240th) from 1676 to 1689
                Bl. Pierre Jarrige, priest and martyr († 1794)
                Ss. James, Anthony and Michael, martyrs († 1838)
                Bl. Victoria Diez y Bustos de Molina, virgin and martyr († 1936)
                Bl. Flavius (Atila Argüezo Gonzalez), religious O.H. († 1936)
                BB. Sebastian Calvo Martinez and 5 comp., martyrs († 1936)
                Bl. Anthony Perulles Estivill, diocesan priest († 1936)
                Bl. Joseph Straszewski, priest and martyr († 1942)
                Bl. Florian Stepniak, priest O.F.M. Cap. and martyr († 1942)
                Bl. Charles Leisner, priest and martyr († 1945)

What Pleases God
<br />
            Consider, my sisters, the pleasure God takes in beholding a soul attentive to pleasing Him, careful to offer Him whatever it undertakes to do? Ah! This is unimaginable, my sisters, and there is great reason to say that this brought joy to God. Ah! Yes, it is His joy, it is His good pleasure, it is His delight. It is like a child who takes care to bring his father everything he is given; if someone gives him something, he finds no rest until he has found his father: "Here, my daddy; this is what I have; I was given this; I did that." And this father takes inexpressible pleasure in seeing the docility of this child and these small tokens of love and dependence.

<br />

            Similarly, my dear sisters, it is so with God, and to a much greater degree. When a soul, from the morning, says to Him: "My God, I offer You all that will happen to me this day," and moreover, on the principal occasions that arise to act or suffer, it casts a glance towards His divine Majesty to say to Him in a silent language: "Behold, my God, what I am going to do for Your love; this encounter is troublesome and hard to bear; but for Your love, nothing is impossible"; then, my daughters, God increases grace, as His goodness sees the use the soul makes of it, and if it had strength today to overcome one difficulty, it will have it tomorrow to overcome another or several much greater and more troublesome ones.

Book of Deuteronomy 31:1-8.
Moses spoke these words to all Israel:

“I am now a hundred and twenty years old, and I can no longer lead you. The LORD has told me, ‘You shall not cross this Jordan!’

The LORD your God himself will cross over before you. He will destroy these nations before you, and you will take possession of their land. Joshua himself will cross over before you, as the LORD has said.

The LORD will deal with them as he dealt with Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and with their land, which he destroyed.

The LORD will deliver them over to you, and you are to deal with them in exactly the way I have commanded you.

Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or terrified because of them, for the LORD your God goes with you; he will never leave you nor forsake you.”

Then Moses summoned Joshua and said to him in the presence of all Israel, “Be strong and courageous, for you must go with this people into the land that the LORD swore to their ancestors to give them, and you will put them in possession of it.

The LORD himself goes before you and will be with you; he will never leave you nor forsake you. Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged.”

Book of Deuteronomy 32:3-4ab, 7-9, 12.
For I proclaim the name of the LORD;

Ascribe greatness to our God!

He is the Rock, his works are perfect,

and all his ways are just.

Remember the days of old;

consider the generations long past.

Ask your father and he will tell you,

your elders, and they will explain to you.

When the Most High gave the nations their inheritance,

when he divided all mankind,

he set up boundaries for the peoples

according to the number of the sons of Israel.

For the LORD’s portion is his people,

Jacob his allotted inheritance.

The LORD alone led him;

no foreign god was with him.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 18:1-5, 10, 12-14.
At that time the disciples came to Jesus and asked, “Who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?”

He called a little child and had him stand among them.

And he said: “Truly I tell you, unless you change and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.

Therefore, whoever takes the lowly position of this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.

And whoever welcomes one such child in my name welcomes me.

See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father in heaven.

What do you think? If a man owns a hundred sheep, and one of them wanders away, will he not leave the ninety-nine on the hills and go to look for the one that wandered off?

And if he finds it, truly I tell you, he is happier about that one sheep than about the ninety-nine that did not wander off.

In the same way your Father in heaven is not willing that any of these little ones should perish.”

St. Jane de Chantal, Foundress († 1641)

Tuesday of the 19th week in Ordinary Time
A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@