St. Jane Elizabeth Bichier des Âges, virgin († 1838)
St. Teresa of Jesus Jornet, virgin and co-foundress († 1897)
Bl. Maria Corsini, mother of a family († 1965)
Bl. Ceferino Namuncurá, Salesian religious († 1905)
St. Mary of Jesus Crucified, Carmelite virgin († 1878)
St. Melchizedek, king and priest of the Most High God
St. Maximilian, martyr († c. 295)
St. Anastasius the Fuller, martyr († c. 304)
St. Victor, martyr of the faith († unknown century)
St. Alexander of Bergamo, martyr († 4th c.)
St. Eleutherius, bishop († 6th c.)
St. Caesarius, bishop (470-543)
Bl. James Retouret, priest and martyr († 1794)
Bl. Ambrose (Matamales), O.F.M. priest and martyr († 1936)
Bl. Peter (Ginestar), O.F.M. priest and martyr († 1936)
Bl. Felix Vivet Trabal, Salesian religious and martyr († 1936)
Bl. Lawrence (Harasymiv), virgin and martyr († 1952)
St. Mercurial, martyr († 1010)

"You have neglected the weightier matters of the Law: justice, mercy, and faithfulness."

If you wish to walk correctly, discreetly, and fruitfully on the path of true religion, you must be austere and strict with yourself, but always appear joyful and open with others, striving in your heart to walk on the heights of righteousness, while knowing how to kindly humble yourself towards the weak. In short, before the judgment of your conscience, you must temper the rigors of justice, so that you are not harsh with sinners, but open to forgiveness and indulgent. (...)


Consider your own sin dangerous and mortal; that of others, call it the fragility of the human condition. The fault you deem worthy of severe correction in yourself, think that in others it deserves only a light tap. Do not be more just than the just: fear committing sin, but do not hesitate to forgive the sinner. True justice is not that which casts the souls of brothers into the trap of despair (...). Very dangerous is the fire which, burning bushes, threatens to engulf the house itself with the ardor of its flames. No, he who readily dissects the faults of others will not avoid sin, for even if he is moved by the zeal for justice, sooner or later, he will give way to denigration.


Obviously, if our own life did not seem so brilliant to us, that of others would not seem so ugly. And if, as we should, we were severe judges of ourselves, the faults of others would not find in us such rigorous censors.

First Letter of Saint Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians 2:1-8.
Brothers, you yourselves know that our coming to you was not without effect.

Although we had previously suffered and been treated outrageously in Philippi, as you know, we had the courage in our God to proclaim the Gospel of God to you amidst great opposition.

For our appeal does not stem from error or impurity or deceit.

Rather, as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the Gospel, so we speak, not to please men, but to please God who tests our hearts.

For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with any hidden motive for greed—God is our witness.

Nor did we seek glory from men, neither from you nor from others.

Though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ, instead we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother caring for her own children.

So deeply did we care for you that we were eager to share with you not only the Gospel of God but also our very lives, because you had become so dear to us.

Psalm 139(138):1-3, 4-6.
You scrutinize me, Lord, and you know!

You know when I sit, when I rise;
from afar, you discern my thoughts.

Whether I walk or lie down, you see it,

all my paths are familiar to you.

Before a word reaches my lips,

already, Lord, you know it.

You hem me in, behind and before,

you have laid your hand upon me.

Such knowledge is too wonderful for me;

too lofty for me to reach!

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 23:23-26.
At that time, Jesus said: "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you pay tithes of mint, dill, and cumin, but you have neglected the weightier matters of the Law: justice, mercy, and faithfulness. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.

Blind guides! You strain out a gnat and swallow a camel!

Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you cleanse the outside of the cup and plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence!

Blind Pharisee, first cleanse the inside of the cup, so that the outside also may become clean."

St. Jane Elizabeth Bichier des Âges, virgin († 1838)

Tuesday of the 21st Week in Ordinary Time