St. Pius X, Pope († 1914)
Bl. Wladyslaw Findysz, Priest and Martyr († 1964)
Bl. Raymond Peiro Victori, O.P. Priest and Martyr († 1936)
Sts. Agathonicus, Zoticus, and other Martyrs († 4th c.)
St. Cyriaca, Martyr († 3rd c.)
St. Quadratus, Bishop and Martyr († 259 or 260)
St. Euprepius, Bishop († 3rd or 4th c.)
St. Luxorius, Martyr († 4th c.)
Sts. Bassa and her three sons, Martyrs († 4th c.)
St. Privat, Bishop and Martyr († c. 407)
St. Sidonius Apollinaris, Bishop († c. 479)
Sts. Bernard (formerly Ahmed), Monk, and his Sisters, Martyrs
St. Joseph Dang Dinh Vien, Priest and Martyr († 1838)
Bl. Victoire Rasoamanarivo, Malagasy Laywoman († 1894)
Bl. Salvador Estrugo Solvès, Priest and Martyr († 1936)
Bl. Bruno Zembol, O.F.M. Religious and Martyr († 1942)

"How did you get in here without a wedding garment?"

There was a man who once joined the wedding feast spoken of in the Gospels. Carelessly dressed, he entered, reclined, and began to eat, for he had the bridegroom's permission. But this guest, seeing that everyone else wore white garments, should have clothed himself in a garment of that color.

Far from doing so, he took his share of the dishes just like the others, although neither his attire nor his disposition made him like them. However, though generous, the bridegroom was not without discernment. Going around to the guests one by one, and looking at them (not that he was interested in how they ate, but rather in their attire), he saw an intruder who did not have a wedding garment and said to him: "My friend, how did you get in here?" (Mt 22:12) With what color? With what conscience? I grant that the doorkeeper did not prevent you from entering, so liberal is the steward. You were unaware, perhaps, what garment was required to be admitted to the feast: you entered, you saw the guests' garments, so to speak, dazzling: should you not, at least, have drawn a lesson from what struck your eyes? Should you not have made a proper entrance, to make a proper exit? But now your unfortunate entrance also earns you an unfortunate expulsion. (...)

You have seen what happened to the man of that day: watch your own case. (...) It is possible that you entered with a soul stained with sins and with a soiled intention. (...) Make a proper exit today, and a very proper re-entry tomorrow. If your soul wore avarice as a garment, enter with another. Take off the garment you have worn, do not put anything over it; strip yourself of fornication and impurity, and clothe yourself with the very radiant robe of chastity. I give you this advice before the Bridegroom of souls, Jesus, enters and sees your garments.

Book of Judges 11:29-39a.
In those days, Jephthah was a mighty warrior. The Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and Mizpah of Gilead. From there he crossed over to the Ammonites.

Then Jephthah made this vow to the Lord: "If you deliver the Ammonites into my hands,

the first person who comes out of my house to meet me when I return victorious shall belong to the Lord, and I will offer him as a burnt offering."

So Jephthah crossed over to the Ammonites to attack them, and the Lord delivered them into his hands.

He defeated them from Aroer to the vicinity of Minnith and as far as Abel-Keramim, a total of twenty cities. It was a very great defeat, and the Ammonites were subdued by the Israelites.

When Jephthah returned to Mizpah, as he approached his house, behold, his daughter came out to meet him, dancing to the sound of tambourines. She was his only child; besides her, he had neither son nor daughter.

As soon as he saw her, he tore his clothes and cried out, "Alas, my daughter, you have brought me low! You have become my ruin! I have uttered a vow to the Lord, and I cannot take it back."

She replied, "My father, you have uttered a vow to the Lord; deal with me according to what has gone out of your mouth, since the Lord has avenged you on your enemies, the Ammonites."

And she added, "I ask you for only one thing: grant me two months. I will go to the mountains to bewail my virginity with my friends."

He said to her, "Go!" And he let her go for two months. So she went, with her friends, into the mountains, and wept over her virginity.

After the two months, she returned to her father, and he carried out his vow concerning her.

Psalm 40(39):5, 7-8a, 8b-9, 10.
Blessed is the man

who trusts in the Lord

and does not turn to the proud,

or to those who go astray after falsehood.

Sacrifice and offering you did not desire,
but my ears you have opened;
burnt offering and sin offering you did not require,
then I said, "Here I am; I come."

"In the scroll of the book it is written concerning me,
what you want me to do.
My God, this is what I delight in:
your law is within my heart."

I have proclaimed righteousness
in the great assembly;
behold, I have not restrained my lips,
O Lord, as you know.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 22:1-14.
At that time, Jesus again spoke to the chief priests and the elders of the people, and he told them in parables:

"The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son.

He sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come.

Again he sent other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited, “See, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast.”’

But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business,

while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them.

The king was enraged. He sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.

Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy.

Go therefore to the main roads, and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find.’

And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good, so the wedding hall was filled with guests.

But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment.

And he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?’ And he was speechless.

Then the king said to the attendants, ‘Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’

For many are called, but few are chosen.”

St. Pius X, Pope († 1914)

Thursday of the 20th Week in Ordinary Time
A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@