St. Benedict of Nursia, Patron of Europe († 547)
St. Pius I, Pope (10th) from 142 to 157
St. Martian, courageous young martyr († 2nd century)
St. Marciana, virgin and martyr († 303)
St. Leontius II, bishop († c. 570)
St. Drostan, abbot († late 6th century)
Sts. Placid and Sigisbert, martyrs († 7th century)
St. Hidulph, chorepiscopus († 700)
St. Abundius of Cordoba, priest and martyr († 854)
St. Olga of Kiev, grandmother of Saint Vladimir († 969)
Bl. Bertrand, abbot († 1149)
St. Ketill, priest († 1151)
Bl. Thomas Benstead, priest and martyr († 1600)
Bl. Thomas Sprott, priest and martyr († 1600)
Bl. Rosalie-Clotilde Bès, virgin and martyr († 1794)
Bl. Marie-Marguerite de Barbegie, virgin and martyr († 1794)
Bl. Marie-Claire Blanc, virgin and martyr († 1794)
Bl. Marie-Élisabeth Pélissier, virgin and martyr († 1794)
Sts. Anne An Jiaozhi and Mary An Lihua, martyrs († 1900)
Sts. Anne An Xinzhi and Mary An Guozhi, martyrs († 1900)

The example of Saint Benedict: "Ora et labora; pray and work"

Saint Benedict was able to interpret with perceptiveness and certainty the signs of his time, when he wrote his Rule in which the union of prayer and work became for those who accepted it the principle of aspiration to eternity: "Ora et labora, pray and work" (...) By reading the signs of the times, Benedict saw that it was necessary to realize the radical program of evangelical holiness in an ordinary form, within the dimensions of the daily life of all people. It was necessary that "the heroic" become normal, daily, and that the normal and daily become heroic. In this way, father of monks, legislator of monastic life in the West, he also became the pioneer of a new civilization. Wherever human labor conditioned the development of culture, economy, and social life, he added to it the Benedictine program of evangelization which united work with prayer and prayer with work. (...)

In our era, Saint Benedict is the patron of Europe. He is so not only in consideration of his particular merits towards this continent, towards its history and its civilization. He is also so in consideration of the renewed relevance of his figure with regard to contemporary Europe. One can detach work from prayer and make it the sole dimension of human existence. Today's era carries this tendency within it. (...) One has the impression of a priority of economy over morality, of the material over the spiritual. On the one hand, the almost exclusive orientation towards the consumption of material goods deprives human life of its deepest meaning. On the other hand, in many cases, work has become an alienating constraint for man (...) and almost in spite of himself, it detaches itself from prayer, removing from human life its transcendent dimension. (...)

One cannot live for the future without understanding that the meaning of life is greater than what is merely material and transient, that this meaning is above this world. If society and the people of our continent have lost interest in this meaning, they must rediscover it. (...) If my predecessor Paul VI called Saint Benedict of Nursia the patron of Europe, it is because he could help the Church and the nations of Europe in this regard.

Book of Proverbs 2:1-9.
My son, welcome my words, carefully guard my precepts,

with an ear attentive to wisdom, a heart inclined toward understanding.

Yes, if you call out for discernment, if you invoke understanding,

if you search for it as for silver, if you dig for it as for hidden treasures,

then you will understand the fear of the Lord, you will discover the knowledge of God.

For it is the Lord who gives wisdom; knowledge and understanding come from his mouth.

He reserves success for the upright: for those who walk in integrity, he is a shield,

guardian of the paths of justice, watching over the way of his faithful ones.

Then you will understand righteousness, judgment, uprightness, the only paths that lead to happiness.

Psalm 34(33):2-3, 4-5, 6-7, 8-9, 10-11.
I will bless the Lord at all times,
his praise continually on my lips.
I will glory in the Lord:
let the poor hear and rejoice!

Magnify the Lord with me,
let us exalt his name together.
I sought the Lord, and he answered me:
from all my fears he delivered me.

Those who look to him will shine,
with no shadow or trouble on their face.
When a poor one cries out, the Lord hears:
he saves him from all his troubles.

The angel of the Lord encamps around
to deliver those who fear him.
Taste and see: the Lord is good!
Happy is he who finds refuge in him!

Saints of the Lord, adore him:
nothing is lacking to those who fear him.
The rich have lost everything, they are hungry;
those who seek the Lord will lack no good thing.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 19:27-29.
At that time, Peter spoke up and said to Jesus, "Look, we have left everything to follow you: what then will be our reward?"

Jesus declared to them, "Amen, I say to you: at the renewal of the world, when the Son of Man is seated on his throne of glory, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel.

And everyone who has left houses, brothers, sisters, father, mother, children, or lands for my name's sake, will receive a hundredfold, and will inherit eternal life.

St. Benedict of Nursia, Patron of Europe († 547)

Feast of Saint Benedict, Abbot, Patron of Europe