Saint Louis IX, King of France († 1270)
Saint Joseph Calasanz, Priest and Founder († 1648)
Blessed Maria Troncatti, Religious, FMA († 1969)
Blessed Alessandro Dordi, Missionary Priest and Martyr († 1991)
Blessed Luigi of Consolation († 1977)
Saints Eusebius, Pontian, Vincent, and Pilgrim, Martyrs († 2nd century)
Saint Genesius, Catechumen and Martyr († c. 303)
Saint Gerontius, Bishop († c. 100)
Saint Severus, Abbot († c. 500)
Saint Menas, Bishop († 582)
Saint Yrieix, Abbot († 591)
Saint Gregory, Abbot († 775)
Saint Thomas Cantilupe, Bishop († 1282)
Blessed Louis Baba, Religious, O.F.M., and Martyr († 1624)
Blessed Louis Sasanda, Priest, O.F.M., and Martyr († 1624)
Blessed Peter Vasquez, Priest, O.P., and Martyr († 1624)
Blessed Michael Carvalho, Priest, S.J., and Martyr († 1624)
Blessed Louis Sotelo, Priest, O.F.M., and Martyr († 1624)
Blessed Paul-Jean Charles, Priest and Martyr († 1794)
Blessed Marie del Transito, Virgin and Foundress († 1885)
Blessed Louis Urbano Lanaspa, Priest, O.P., and Martyr († 1936)
Blessed Vincent Alvarez Cienfuegos, Priest, O.P., Martyr († 1936)

God Calls to Our Liberty

            God incites man to rise from sin (...). The more promptly man acknowledges his misery, the more swiftly also does he humble himself and surrender to God, knowing that it is for God to accomplish this work of conversion within him. He becomes aware of this little by little through the continual inspirations God sends him, and beholding the work and the profit he derives therefrom, he says within himself: “It truly seems to me that God has naught else to do but concern Himself with me. Oh! How sweet and full of love are God’s works upon us!” (...)

            Even in this life, to serve God is truly to reign. When God delivers man from the sin that enslaves him, He frees him from all servitude and establishes him in true liberty. Otherwise, man ever moves from desire to desire without ever finding appeasement; the more he possesses, the more he would fain have; seeking to satisfy himself, he is never content. For indeed, whosoever has a desire is possessed by it; to that thing which he loves, he has sold himself; seeking his liberty, following his appetites with offense to God, he renders himself endlessly enslaved.

            Consider therefore the strength and power of our free will, which contains within itself two things so opposed and contrary one to another: eternal life or death. It cannot be compelled by any creature against its will; wherefore, as long as it lies within thy power, reflect well and take heed what thou doest.

The First Letter of Saint Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians 1:1-5, 8b-10.

Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace.

We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers,
remembering before God our Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.

For we know, brethren beloved by God, that you were chosen.

For our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake.

For the news of your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we have no need to speak of it.

For they themselves report concerning us what a welcome we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols, to serve the living and true God,

and to await His Son from heaven, whom He raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come.

Psalm 149:1-2, 3-4, 5-6a, 9b.

Sing to the Lord a new song;

His praise in the assembly of the faithful.

Let Israel rejoice in Him who made him;
let the children of Zion be joyful in their King.

Let them praise His name in the dance;
let them sing praises to Him with timbrel and lyre.

For the Lord takes pleasure in His people;
He adorns the humble with victory.

Let the faithful exult in glory;
let them sing for joy upon their beds.
Let the high praises of God be in their throats,
This is the glory for all His faithful ones.

The Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 23:13, 15-22.

At that time, Jesus said:

“Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven against men; for you neither enter yourselves, nor allow those who are entering to go in!

Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves!

Woe to you, blind guides, who say, ‘If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath.’

You fools and blind! For which is greater, the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred?

And you say, ‘If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing; but if anyone swears by the gift on the altar, he is bound by his oath.’

You blind men! For which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?

So he who swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it.

And he who swears by the temple swears by it and by Him who dwells in it.

And he who swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by Him who sits upon it.”

Saint Louis IX, King of France († 1270)

Monday of the Twenty-first Week in Ordinary Time
A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@