Saint Clare of Assisi, Foundress († 1253)
Saint Alexander the Charcoal Burner, Bishop and Martyr († 3rd century)
Blessed Jean-Georges Rehm, O.P. Priest and Martyr († 1794)
Blessed Maurice Tornay, Priest and Martyr († 1949)
Saint Tiburtius, Martyr († 288)
Saint Susanna, Roman Martyr († unknown century)
Saint Rufinus, Bishop († c. 4th century)
Saint Cassian, Bishop († 4th century)
Saint Taurinus, Bishop († 5th century ?)
Saint Attracta, Abbess († 5th century)
Saint Equitius, Abbot († before 571)
Saint Géry, Bishop († c. 625)
Saint Rusticola, Abbess († 632)
Blessed Stephen Rowsham, Priest and Martyr († 1586)
Blessed John Sandys, Priest and Martyr († 1586)
Blessed William Lampley, Tailor and Martyr († 1586)
Blessed Raphael Alonso Gutierrez, Layman and Martyr († 1936)
Blessed Charles Diaz Gandia, Layman and Martyr († 1936)
Blessed Michael Domingo Cendra, S.D.B. and Martyr († 1936)

"The sons are free"

The Apostle Paul says that creation itself awaits the revelation of the children of God (Romans 8:19). This creation is now subjected, against its will, to futility; but it is in hope. For it hopes that Christ will help it by His grace to be freed from the bondage of inevitable decay, and to receive the glorious freedom of the children of God. Thus there will be one freedom, for creation and for the children of God, when the glory of the latter is revealed. But now, as long as this revelation is still awaited, all creation groans as it waits to share in the glory of our adoption and redemption (v. 22)...

It is clear that the creatures groaning as they await the adoption of sons have within them the first gifts of the Spirit (v. 9ff). This adoption of sons is the redemption of the entire body, when, as an adopted son of God, it will see this eternal and divine good face to face. There is already filial adoption in the Church of the Lord when the Spirit within us cries out: "Abba, Father" (v. 15). But this adoption will be perfect when those who are admitted to see the face of God rise again, all of them, in immortality, honor, and glory. Then the human condition will truly consider itself redeemed. That is why the Apostle Paul dares to say: "We have been saved in hope" (v. 24). Indeed, hope saves, just like faith, of which it is said: "Your faith has saved you" (Mark 5:34).

Book of Deuteronomy 10:12-22.

Moses said to the people:

"Now, Israel, do you know what the Lord your God asks of you? To fear the Lord your God, to walk in all His ways, to love the Lord your God, to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul,

to keep the commandments and the statutes of the Lord which I command you today for your good.

To the Lord your God belong the heavens and the highest heavens, the earth and all that is in it.

And yet, it was only to your fathers that the Lord your God became attached in love. After them, among all peoples, it was their descendants He chose, which He still does with you today.

Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stiff-necked,

for the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, mighty, and awesome God, who shows no partiality and accepts no bribe.

It is He who renders justice to the orphan and the widow, who loves the immigrant, and gives him food and clothing.

Love therefore the immigrant, for you were immigrants in the land of Egypt.

You shall fear the Lord your God, you shall serve Him, to Him you shall hold fast, and by His name you shall swear.

He is your God, Him you shall praise: He has done for you these great and awesome things which you have seen with your own eyes.

When your fathers came to Egypt, they were only seventy; but now the Lord your God has made you as numerous as the stars of the heaven."

Psalm 147:12-13.14-15.19-20.

Glorify the Lord, O Jerusalem!

Praise your God, O Zion!

For He has strengthened the bars of your gates;

He has blessed your children within you.

He makes peace in your borders;

He fills you with the finest of wheat.

He sends out His command to the earth;

His word runs swiftly.

He declares His word to Jacob,

His statutes and His judgments to Israel.

He has not dealt with any nation like this;

nor have they known His judgments.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 17:22-27.

At that time, as Jesus and the disciples were gathered in Galilee, He said to them: "The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men;

they will kill Him, and on the third day He will be raised." And they were greatly distressed.

When they came to Capernaum, those who collected the two-drachma tax for the Temple came to Peter and said, "Does your teacher not pay the two drachmas?"

He replied, "Yes." When Peter entered the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth collect customs or taxes? From their sons or from others?"

Peter answered Him, "From others." Jesus said to him, "Then the sons are free.

However, so that we do not offend them, go to the sea, cast a hook, and take the first fish that comes up; and when you open its mouth, you will find a four-drachma coin. Take that and give it to them for Me and for yourself."

Saint Clare of Assisi, Foundress († 1253)

Monday of the 19th Week in Ordinary Time