Bl. Marie-Rose de Gordon and 6 companions, martyrs († 1794)
St. Antioch, physician and martyr († 3rd or 4th c.)
St. Athenogenes, chorepiscopus and martyr († c. 305)
St. Helier, hermit and martyr († 6th c.)
Sts. Monulph and Gondulph, bishops († 6th or 7th c.)
Sts. Reineldis, Grimoald and Gondulph, martyrs († 680)
St. Sisenand, deacon and martyr († 851)
Bl. Irmengard, abbess († 866)
Bl. Simon de Costa, religious S.J. and martyr († 1570)
Bl. John Sugar and Robert Grissold, martyrs († 1604)
Bl. André de Soveral and Domingos Carvalho, martyrs
Bl. Nicolas Savouret and Claude Béguignot, martyrs († 1794)
St. Marie-Madeleine Postel, virgin († 1846)
Sts. Lang Yangzhi and Paul Lang Fu, martyrs († 1900)
St. Thérèse Zhang Hezhi, martyr († 1900)

“No one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal Him.”

The Father is He from whom all that exists comes. He Himself, in Christ and through Christ, is the origin of all. Furthermore, He is in Himself His being, and He does not receive from elsewhere what He is… He is infinite because He is not in some place, but all is in Him… He is always before time; time comes from Him. If your thought pursues Him and if you believe you reach the limits of His being, you will always find Him, for when you progress ceaselessly towards Him, the goal towards which you are heading is always further… Such is the truth of the mystery of God, such is the expression of the incomprehensible nature of the Father… To express Him, words can only fall silent; to plumb Him, thought remains inert; and to grasp Him, the intellect feels constrained.


And yet, this name of Father indicates His nature: He is only Father. For He does not receive, like men, the fact of being Father from elsewhere. He is the Eternal Unbegotten… He is known only by the Son, since “no one knows the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son has chosen to reveal Him,” and “no one knows the Son except the Father.” Both know each other, and this mutual knowledge is perfect. Therefore, since “no one knows the Father except the Son,” let us have no thought of the Father other than that revealed to us by the Son, who alone is “the faithful witness” (Rev 1:5).


It is better to think about what concerns the Father than to speak of Him. For all words are powerless to convey His perfections… We can only acknowledge His glory, have a certain idea of it, and try to specify it through our imagination. But human language feels its impotence, and words do not explain reality as it is… Thus, however much one may acknowledge God, one must refrain from naming Him: whatever words are used, they cannot express God as He is, nor convey His greatness… We must believe in Him, try to understand Him, and adore Him; in so doing, we will speak of Him.

Book of Exodus 3:1-6, 9-12.
In those days, Moses was tending the flock of his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian. He led the flock beyond the desert and came to Horeb, the mountain of God.

The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from within a bush. Moses looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, yet it was not consumed.

So Moses said, “I must turn aside now and see this marvelous sight, why the bush is not burned up.”

When the Lord saw that he turned aside to look, God called to him from within the bush and said, “Moses, Moses!” And he said, “Here I am.”

Then He said, “Do not come any closer; remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.”

And He said, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” Then Moses hid His face, for he was afraid to look at God.

The Lord said, “Now indeed, the cry of the sons of Israel has come to Me, and I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians are oppressing them.

Therefore come now, and I will send you to Pharaoh, so that you may bring My people, the sons of Israel, out of Egypt.”

But Moses said to God, “Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring the sons of Israel out of Egypt?”

And He said, “I will certainly be with you. And this shall be the sign to you that it is I who have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain.”

Psalm 103 (102):1-2, 3-4, 6-7.
Bless the Lord, O my soul,

and all that is within me, bless His holy name!

Bless the Lord, O my soul,

and forget none of His benefits!



For He pardons all your iniquities,

and heals all your diseases;

He redeems your life from the pit,

and crowns you with lovingkindness and compassion.



The Lord performs righteous deeds,

He defends the right of the oppressed.

He made known His ways to Moses,

His acts to the sons of Israel.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 11:25-27.
At that time, Jesus said in reply, “I praise You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants.

Yes, Father, for this way was well-pleasing in Your sight.

All things have been handed over to Me by My Father; and no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal Him.”

Bl. Marie-Rose de Gordon and 6 companions, martyrs († 1794)

Wednesday of the 15th week in Ordinary Time