St. Jane Delanoue, virgin and foundress. († 1736)
St. Clare of Montefalco, abbess O.S.A. († 1308)
Bl. Marie-Élisabeth Turgeon, virgin and foundress. († 1881)
St. Hyacinth, Dominican priest († 1257)
St. Myron, priest and martyr († c. 250)
St. Mamas or Mammes, shepherd and martyr († 273 or 274)
St. Eusebius, Pope (31st) from 04/18 to 08/17/309
St. Jeron, priest and martyr († 856)
St. Elijah the Younger, Basilian monk († 903)
Bl. Nicholas Politi, hermit († 1157)
Bl. Albert, priest († 1202)
St. Beatrice da Silva Meneses, virgin († 1490)
Martyrs of Nagasaki († 1633)
Bl. Noël-Hilaire Le Conte, cleric and martyr († 1794)
Bl. Henri Canadell, priest and martyr († 1936)

"I have come to cast fire upon the earth; and how I wish that it were already kindled!" (Lk 12:49)

Our Lord Jesus Christ lives on earth within souls and grows in them according to the operations of his grace, just as he once conversed in his childhood with his Mother, and he continues his interior life in us when we are solely devoted to him. What he began in himself, he continues in his Church, so that the divine life he communicates to it, which is so glorious to God his Father, will never end in eternity. He desires that the whole earth be full of fire, and he sent it down here only that it might consume the world (cf. Lk 12:49). (...)

There is nothing sweeter, nor anything that gives more rest and consolation to the soul, than to be rapt out of oneself by Jesus Christ and by his divine Spirit, who for this does not need Elijah's fiery chariot (cf. 2 Kgs 2:11); but who, by his sole power, raises us from earth to heaven, and from the depths of ourselves transports us into the bosom of God. I would be unfaithful to Jesus if I did not incessantly urge your soul to prevent it from resting on itself for a single moment.

Book of Jeremiah 38:4-6, 8-10.

Then the princes said to King Zedekiah, "Let this man be put to death, for by speaking as he does, he is demoralizing all that is left of the fighting men in the city, and all the people. He is not seeking the welfare of the people, but their harm."

King Zedekiah replied, "He is in your hands; the king can do nothing against you!"

So they took Jeremiah and cast him into the cistern of Malchiah, the king's son, which was in the court of the guard. They let him down with ropes. In the cistern there was no water, but only mud, and Jeremiah sank into the mud.

Ebed-Melech came out of the king's house and spoke to him:

"My Lord the king, what these men have done to Jeremiah the prophet is evil! They have cast him into the cistern, and he will die of hunger there, for there is no more bread in the city!"

Then the king commanded Ebed-Melech the Ethiopian, "Take thirty men with you, and pull Jeremiah the prophet up from the cistern before he dies."

Psalm 40 (39):2-4, 18.

With great hope
I hoped in the Lord;
he bent down to me
to hear my cry.

He drew me out of the horrible pit,
out of the miry bog;
he set my feet upon a rock,
he made my steps secure.

He put a new song in my mouth,
a hymn of praise to our God.
Many will see and fear,
and put their trust in the Lord.

I am poor and wretched,
but the Lord thinks of me.
You are my help, my deliverer:
my God, do not delay!

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Luke 12:49-53.

At that time, Jesus said to his disciples: "I have come to cast fire upon the earth, and how I wish that it were already kindled!

I have a baptism to undergo, and how distressed I am until it is completed!

Do you think that I have come to establish peace on the earth? No, I tell you, but rather division.

For from now on, five in one household will be divided, three against two and two against three;

they will be divided: father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law."

St. Jane Delanoue, virgin and foundress. († 1736)

Letter to the Hebrews 12:1-4.

Brothers and sisters, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and the sin that clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us,

looking to Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of faith. For the sake of the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross, disregarding its shame, and has taken his seat at the right hand of the throne of God.

Consider him who endured such hostility against himself from sinners, so that you may not grow weary or lose heart.

In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood.

Twentieth Sunday in Ordinary Time

A